Hydrogen i18n example (#1279)
Shopify/hydrogen: examples/i18n/RFC.md

The native [Shopify Translate & Adapt app](https://apps.shopify.com/translate-and-adapt),
allows merchants to easily translate and adapt any store content for any market language.
This powerful app allows you to translate traditional Shopify resources such as `products`,
`collections`, `pages`, `blogs` and `menus` and `carts`, but also newer content
primitives such as `metafields` and `metaobjects`.

The GraphQL Storefront API [@inContext directive](https://shopify.dev/changelog/storefront-api-incontext-directive-supports-languages)
allows merchants to retrieve localized Shopify by passing `language` and
`country` arguments to any query. If the requested language is active in the given
country, as configured within the shop's Market settings, then the query will return
translated values.

Although these three pieces provide the core requirement to implement a solid internalized
experience, there is still the challenge of how to translate static content served
directly from the headless storefront (Account routes, Cart, Search etc). It is
also unfortunately very easy to get all these pieces working sub-optimally in terms

> of performance, because of the varios inter-dependencies across the different

Reviewer: ```suggestion
of performance, because of the various interdependencies across the different
```

    "languages": [
      {"code": "es", "name": "Spanish"},
      {"code": "ca", "name": "Catalan"},
      {"code": "eu", "name": "Basque"},
      {"code": "gl", "name": "Galician"}
    ],
    "prefixes": ["/es-ES", "/ca-ES", "/eu-ES", "/gl-ES"]
  },
  {
    "code": "FR",
    "name": "France (EUR €)",
    "languages": [{"code": "fr", "name": "French"}],
    "prefixes": ["/fr-FR"]
  },
  {
    "code": "DE",
    "name": "Germany (EUR €)",
    "languages": [{"code": "de", "name": "German"}],
    "prefixes": ["/de-DE"]
  }
]
```

### 2. Create a locale parser for your given localization strategy

The localization parser allows you to configure fine-grained details about your localization
strategy. It allows you to configure the casing the country and language codes
in the url. Here we create a `subfolder` locale parser that support urls such as:

- example.com/en-CA/
- example.com/fr-CA/
  ....

```ts
// file: /utils.ts

import {createSubfolderLocaleParser} from '@shopify/hydrogen/i18n';

// Configure the i18n locale format. e.g this will match /fr-CA/ or /en-CA
export const subfolderLocaleParser = createSubfolderLocaleParser({
  parser: ({COUNTRY, language, delimiter}) =>

>     `/${language}${delimiter['-']}${COUNTRY}`,

Reviewer 2: Would it be simpler to just make the parser be case insensitive? And the signature could also be `{country, language, delimiter}`?

});
```

### 3. Update `server.ts` to support i18n

To help your retrieve the correct i18n localization for a given request, we add
the `getI18n` utility which correctly parses a request url and automatically
retrieves the correct jsons for a given locale and returns them as the i18n

```ts
// file: server.ts

// step 1. import the parser and utility function
import {getI18n} from '@shopify/hydrogen/i18n';
import {subfolderLocaleParser} from '~/utils';

// step 2. Statically import your default country and language .jsons to avoid making
// additional localization requests for users in the default locale
import defaultCountry from './public/locales/country/US.json';
import defaultLanguage from './public/locales/language/en.json';

// step 3. Create the default i18n
const DEFAULT_I18N = {
  isDefault: true,
  country: defaultCountry,
  language: defaultLanguage,

>   prefix: subfolderLocaleParser({

Reviewer 2: What would this be if `i18n` was in the domain?

    build: remixBuild,
    mode: process.env.NODE_ENV,
    getLoadContext: () => ({
      cart,
      i18n, // Step 5. pass i18n to the Remix context
      publicEnv,
      session,
      storefront,
    }),
  });

  // ...
}

const CART_MUTATE_FRAGMENT = `#graphql
  fragment CartApiMutation on Cart {
    id
    totalQuantity
    buyerIdentity {
      countryCode # needed because CountrySelector updates the countryCode on change
    }
  }
`;
```

### 4. Add type to the i18n context

```ts
// file: remix.d.ts

// Step 1. import `GetLocalFromRequestConfi
import type {HydrogenSession, I18n} from 'server';

declare module '@shopify/remix-oxygen' {
  export interface AppLoadContext {
    cart: HydrogenCart;
    env: Env;
    publicEnv: PublicEnv;
    session: HydrogenSession;
    storefront: Storefront;
    i18n: I18n; // Step 2. type the context property
    oxygen: OxygenHeaders;
  }
}
```

### 5. Update `/app/root.tsx`

#### Update the loader to return the i18n to make it available across the app

```ts
// file: app/root.tsx`

export async function loader({context}: LoaderArgs) {
  // ...
  return defer({
    // return i18n so that it is available throughout the app

>     i18n: context.i18n,

Reviewer 2: Does this mean that the entire `i18n` json for every route is sent down?

    // ...
  });
}
```

#### Update the root component to support localization

```ts
// Update
export default function App() {
  const {i18n, ...data} = useLoaderData<typeof loader>();

  return (
    <html lang={i18n.language.code}>
      <head>
        <meta charSet="utf-8" />
        <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width,initial-scale=1" />
        <Meta />
        <Links />
      </head>
      <body>

>         <Layout {...data} key={`${i18n.language.code}-${i18n.country.code}`}>

Reviewer 2: Curious why the Layout has the key passed in like this?

```ts
// file: components/Header.tsx (one example)

// Step 1. import `LocalizedLink` component
import {LocalizedLink} from '@shopify/hydrogen/i18n';

export function Header({header, isLoggedIn, cart}: HeaderProps) {
  const {shop, menu} = header;
  return (
    <header className="header">
      {/* Step 2. replace each <Link /> with the <LocalizedLink /> component */}
      <LocalizedLink prefetch="intent" to="/">
        <strong>{shop.name}</strong>
      </LocalizedLink>
      <HeaderMenu menu={menu} viewport="desktop" />
      <HeaderCtas isLoggedIn={isLoggedIn} cart={cart} />
    </header>
  );
}
```

### 8. Implement localized content with the `useTranslation` hook

```ts
// file: components/Header.tsx

// Step 1. import the useTranslation hook
import {useTranslation, LocalizedLink} from '@shopify/hydrogen/i18n';

function HeaderCtas({
  isLoggedIn,
  cart,
}: Pick<HeaderProps, 'isLoggedIn' | 'cart'>) {
  // Step 2. instanciate the translator
  const {t} = useTranslation();

  // Step 3. use localized content for the account a login CTA's
  const loginLabel = isLoggedIn
    ? t('layout.header.ctas.account')

>     : t('layout.header.ctas.login');

Reviewer: Have you considered using a library like react-i18next for the example? I think many people will want use advanced features that these kind of libs offer and type safety for the TFunction is really easy with it.
